---
title: What is different attribute and property in JavaScript and HTML
description: The article speaks about differences between property and attribute.
date: '2023-03-08'
locale: en
categories: [programming]
tags: [HTML, javaScript]
image:
  path: /logos/javascript-logo.jpeg
  width: 800
  height: 500
  alt: javascript-logo
---

## Overview
The terms attribute and property is easy to confused in HTML. This article is going to talk about differences between attribute and property together with code example.
In addition, You can test all the codes on [playground](https://playcode.io/javascript).

## Attribute vs Property
First of all, let's see what is Attribute and Property shortly.

### Attribute
- Defined by HTML. (related to HTML)
- Attribute value can not be changed.
- Attributes initialize DOM properties when the browser parses the HTML to generate DOM objects for HTML tags.
- referring to additional information of an object.
- Attribute update the property synchronously.

### Property
- Defined by the DOM. (related to DOM)
- Property value can be changed after it's initialized
- describing the characteristics of an object.
- Property change does not affect the attribute.

## See more details with code
Image that there is following html element in the project.
```html
<input id="name-input" type="text" value="name">
```
In input html element, there are three attributes. `id`, `type` and `value`.
Once the browser parses this HTML code, a `HTMLInputElement` object will be created.
JS DOM objects consist of many properties such as accept, checked, classList, className, etc.
The properties may be different by DOM objects.

### Check "attribute" is existed in element
```js
const nameInput = document.querySelector('#name-input')
console.log(nameInput.hasAttribute('type')) // true
console.log(nameInput.hasAttribute('name')) // false
```
The `hasAttribute` method in element checks attribute in element whether it's existed.
The `hasAttribute` takes a string parameter and returns string if it's existed.

### Get collection of all attributes
```js
const nameInput = document.querySelector('#name-input')
console.log(nameInput.attributes) // { 0: Attr { ... }, 1: Attr { ... } }
```

The `attributes` property returns collection of all attribute nodes registered to the specified node.
It's important that the `attributes` property is not an array. 

### Remove "attribute"
```js
const nameInput = document.querySelector('#name-input')
nameInput.removeAttribute('value')
console.log(nameInput.value) // undefined
```
`removeAttribute` method enable to remove attribute passed by parameter. 
If you are going to access after removing, that attribute will returns `undefined`

### Access "property" value by "attribute"
```js
const nameInput = document.querySelector('#name-input')
console.log(nameInput.value) // "name"
console.log(nameInput.getAttribute('value')) // "name"
```
The `getAttribute` method is used to get property in attribute.

### Update "property" value with "attribute"
```js
const nameInput = document.querySelector('#name-input')
nameInput.value = 'changed'
nameInput.setAttribute('value', 'changed');
```
Property in attribute can be changed along with the `setAttribute` method.

## Ref
- [Stackoverflow - what-is-the-difference-between-properties-and-attributes-in-html](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/6003819/what-is-the-difference-between-properties-and-attributes-in-html)
- [The difference between attributes and properites](https://gomakethings.com/the-difference-between-attributes-and-properties-in-vanilla-js)
- [Geeksforgeeks - What is the difference between properties and attributes in HTML?](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/what-is-the-difference-between-properties-and-attributes-in-html/)
- [javascript.info-Attributes and properties](https://javascript.info/dom-attributes-and-properties)
- [Element.attributes](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Element/attributes)
